hear me out Greg he's got 1980s yeah
they're playing D&D well and a boy named
Will goes missing it's the upside-down
oh my god what's up everybody welcome
back to another breakdown of true
detective Greg and Ryan here now of
course again there are spoilers
throughout this entire video so go watch
it first then come on back here and make
sure you're subscribed is we're gonna
break down every single episode of
season three and it's a pretty good one
so far mm-hmm okay let's jump into the
episode of the big never so yeah you got
like the what the big sleep.the the big
spot so many different big something
from the war in the past yeah and I
think the never here obviously deals
with the time in the memory aspect of
when Wayne's going through his life you
know it's turning into by 2015 the big
never what happened what didn't happen
so we have a new director for episode 3
yes yes we do
no more Sonya they've switched to is
it's a con Daniel sack I mean who's done
some obviously this true director to do
four episodes are true detective he's
also done Jack Ryan he's done better
call Saul the Ozarks fittingly for this
the leftovers the man in the high castle
the Americans The Walking Dead game of
Thrones NYPD Blue and x-files so that's
pretty damn good list of credits on his
resume that's honestly the most solid
resume you could have walking into true
detective like yeah I think I could
direct a few episodes here's my resume
yeah and I think that's why they're
giving them four episodes we can do this
thing right here okay so the biggest
thing we can get out of this episode
really is from the 90s and rollin West
it's not just depositions anymore we're
gonna have a full-on story going on the
90s I feel like we're now just gonna get
a few flashbacks to the 80s and really
we're going to the 90s at least that's
what the creators are telling us to is
like from this point on after this
episode it's 90s now so the note or the
ransom note that we saw from last
episode we learned a few things about it
obviously the grammar really knew the
grammar was kind of spotty yeah
but the actual envelope that it was in
was handwritten yeah so it wasn't the
smartest person in the room no not at
all I did this still you could be anyone
and they're searching the local areas
where it could have been postmarked by
so they're gonna hopefully track down
where the person mailed it and you know
some handwriting matches if you don't
want to get caught that's this is not
going to do it no this isn't a brainiac
processing stamps from a post office in
Farmington could have been dropped in a
mailbox
put him in out there to canvass back in
2015 or in the doctor's office with
Henry and Wayne they're talking about
the disease they don't want to say the
name of the disease Alzheimer's but they
just want to have that out there they
don't want to say it yet but that's what
it is he's leading down that path and he
doesn't want to be treated any
differently by his son or the doctor
like how the doctors kind of it almost
was like an interrogation here as well
you know he's been on the other end of
it he's been in the depositions as well
and he's been you know interrogating
people in 1980 and how much mirrors now
that yeah now the tables have been
turned and he's he's gonna be real with
them like he's like I if you guys try to
put me into a home but he's taking he's
gonna commit suicide yeah and that's the
reason why we see the gun by his side
all the time in you know in the drawer
by his bed and on the on the table
whenever he's doing his work essentially
if his mind goes too far off or his son
puts him in a home he says he's gonna
off himself
yeah next we learn a little bit about
the Ozarks children's Outreach Center em
out of nowhere before we even go there
right right right we're gonna go there
later but we we find out that there was
a reward set for any information on the
missing children you know Julie yeah cuz
we'll has you know since passed away but
it blindsides
Wayne enrolling because they didn't know
anything about this and it's almost like
this they went over their head to their
higher ups and okayed this reward to
reach out to the community you'd think
that the lead detectives might know
these details before it kind of hits the
public
this is them planting the seeds for like
there's something else bigger picture
here something going above their heads
here there's it's like this is Chinatown
sorry it's it's over your head so can't
deal with it kind of I'm getting here
now during a 1990 deposition with Roland
West I found interest in a particular
line that he says when
kind of thebes on what happened with ted
lorraine look range kicking his ass
kicking his ass he's you know he says
that obviously doesn't say that that
that happened but he says a thing about
you know my mind is fuzzy you should ask
wayne now did you take that as that key
knew that Wayne was Wayne has some
memory issues or or is he just messing
with the cops the same thing I think
there's more of like listen guys don't
go too far into that we kick this guy's
ass just just leave it as it is I think
he was just a little not at bad that
wasn't anything more like they're bigger
clues in there I think that was more of
we kicked this guy's ass and we did
things that were a little in the gray
area and so don't look this up a swing
Purple Haze my man tried to get him
transferred over here twice you know
like both times by the majors office
told me not to ask again feels like we
should stay on point I'm making a point
now we're staying in the 90s a little
bit longer and we're in the parking lot
for Walgreens there at the pharmacy of
course they are because it's got to go
check it out yeah it's like do a married
do oh they're gonna stake out and I
think it just goes into show like how
much this case meant to themselves
individually but also their marriage yes
like it really kept kept everything
going forward the momentum of it and I
think that when when that changed then
their marriage changed as well
it's also showing too that she doesn't
really care as much about the case as he
does or at least we'll get that much
it's absorbing him where she's like
let's go just have sex let's go find
somewhere to have sex and yeah it shows
that she's a little bit let's go what's
you know we don't have to be here with
this case the entire time he's not going
with that Bible yeah I kind of disagree
to a touch just because I think it I
think they means it means a lot to each
of them just in different ways right
obviously he's looking for just he's
wants to solve the damn thing and I
think that she has a different kind of
objective obviously as a writer like
trying to get this this book out and and
and then she's even willing to like
flirt with other police officers you
know the detectives in order to get down
some new
details that maybe Wayne couldn't do
himself I love that scene we're gonna do
anything by any means necessary in order
to not any means necessary but at least
go on a date with a date with another
officer in order to get some you know
details that weren't public so you know
it means a lot to her I just don't think
it means the same thing to each other
remember he's at a desk job and she's
getting all the fun right now or at
least in his mind and she's having all
the fun doing all the gumshoe work and
while he's taking care of the kids and
he's other desk job
things like that are starting to pepper
into his life a little bit more than he
thought he would be at this point it's
cool let's talk about that like later on
in the episode you know he goes to the
Walmart which you know during this time
you know becoming one of the the biggest
corporations in the world and you know I
think part of that you know desk job
stay-at-home dad kind of thing is it's
kind of tearing apart in the fact that
this is unsolved mystery it's just
eating at him and you know he's a little
bit frantic and scared even if his
daughter goes missing for you know he
lasts for five minutes yes yeah from
look it was it from looking at the
toilet paper yeah I'm trying to pick
which one the second that happened
immediately thought of he's gonna find
out yes but it just shows the exact the
instance of this case and what it's done
to himself in the community around him
and he's kind of on a I'd say at a
heightened state at that point in his
life uh-huh because it just doesn't sit
well with him that he never found out
what happened to Julie god dammit you
can't do that you hear me don't do that
Rebecca
[Music]
now speaking of all that we also got
confirmation in this episode that the
Purcell case was Wayne's last case
yesican mentioned he's on a desk job but
we don't know exactly what went down we
just know that according to Rowland West
that he was kind of done dirty by the
higher-ups it looks like at some point
in this case he's probably gonna be put
to the backburner
when they go forward whoever they think
and then rolling west it's kind of
elevated uh-huh uh-huh this also like
knocks down our theory that we thought
that maybe there's a huge falling-out
between Rowland and Wayne seems I wanted
to hire up saying between them just
decide to split them up and keep them
away from each other so that's all that
is now a big time reveal in this episode
the Purcell kids didn't really tell the
truth what did they say everyone's lying
so again the games come back we were
reminded the first episode everyone's
lying the kids said that they were kind
of BFFs with Ronny mm-hmm and some of
the other neighbors but what we find out
from Ronny is that they never really
hung out no sir we didn't play much I
mean I told him he could come over
sometime to see the new puppy but that's
it I'm gonna go back to talk to Mike and
all these kids I'm gonna go back to the
first episode these kids running around
they have a bigger story here that we're
not singing yet the main takeaway here
is that you can't trust the kids can't
trust the the cops you can't trust to us
here politicians politicians don't
everyone everyone's lying you don't know
what's going on just yet now this leads
our two lead detectives to kind of go
back to the house and try to find some
more evidence and see what the hell
we're not you know working start let's
let's go back to the house I feel like
in the 90s so thinking again the first
thing we got to go back to the house the
Purcell house there's some isn't really
do a really nice clean sweep the first
time they sure didn't there's more
evidence popping up and what we see is
in I think it's Julie's closet mm-hmm we
see a bag with a notebook and basically
there's a map of the woods where they
used to maybe meet up with somebody we
also see it looks like a sunset or a
sunrise in the woods with a pink and
yellow crown in the corner I immediately
thought yellow king from season one I
know you hate when I bring up the yellow
guy no I don't hate it I just I think
the creators are just playing with just
messing with yes totally and then we
also saw some torn up little notes that
are extremely creepy one they said it's
all
right I'm always here don't listen and
I'll always keep you safe
it's okay have a good night all these
little notes that it either
it was correspondence between some other
stranger perhaps an adult or it was
correspondence between the brother and
sister will and Julie mm-hmm
we don't really know but we knew that
this this bag this Hoyt foods bag
contained all these kind of extra clues
about where they would hang out now
thanks to Amelia's solo investigation at
the bar with detective yes
Oklahoma police we find out that they do
have the full prints of Julie's she
wasn't behind the pharmacy so we don't
know if it was front or behind and they
didn't supposedly didn't get a clean
sweep of the whole area they got like
they didn't like do a thorough job it
was like they had there's no waiting to
get back on yeah they have video footage
a limited time to get the prints and it
was a full match of Julie's fingerprint
also I feel like that scene was just
setting us up for the scene where she
gets home and they blow up on each other
it's just a setup weighing in his
isolation from the case itself and how
he feels like he's useless here and he
just lost the kids and he's being a dick
you're reading in finally that really
could see him and me
so we have the Hoyt foods bag in the
closet and also Lucy their mother worked
at Hoyt Foods for a time yeah so they
head to the headquarters of Hoyt foods
to get some more info on that and that
company turns out that this company is
the one that funds that owes Ozarks
Children Outreach Center how convenient
how convenient so it's physical
something's fishy is going on with this
place um they asked for like the list of
all the names all 700 work there mm-hmm
and the fact that mr. Hoyt is out on a
safari in Africa in Africa you know how
convenient again enjoys hunting and I
love that line he left he left before
Halloween yes he left before Halloween
but I love that line from rolla's like
oh my my friend Wayne here he's a hunter
and then the music kicked the school oh
I was I was coming for you yeah I got
this I got this vision of just like
Wayne tracking down history in Africa
got a elephant gun gets back from Africa
Wayne's gonna track him down and
athelas mr. Voight's been in Africa
since mid-october safari oh yeah my
partner is a bit of a hunter himself now
my take away out of poet is that maybe
we're Julie's biological dad is if they
go down that route maybe not the killer
so Lucy met this man there maybe and
that's a su v--'s father yes Julie's
father and someone working at Hawaii
maybe yeah I immediately now I'm gonna
get this is very major conspiracy but I
was thinking very maniacal in terms of
the the owners of Hawaii mr. and mrs.
Hoyt okay I started this whole thing you
know they obviously have deep pockets
they have influence and power in the
community of Steel Alger they they might
have interest in some type of bigger
pedophilia ring and and kind of can
control the prosecutor's office and make
sure they kind of cover up things okay
okay that wouldn't point the finger at
them not dismissing that it's there
they're really there they're throwing it
out there for you so I'm not gonna
dismiss that I think just the baby
daddies there I think just the bottom
line is be suspicious of Hoyt foods and
their mission in the community as well
as people that might work there yes
higher ups bigger for this bigger
problem going on here with them and
they're just trying to maybe clean
something else down there this feels a
little bit like season two where you had
a lot of storylines going around you
didn't know what to follow yeah but I
feel like again they're on a good pace
right now I love this now some possible
real-life inspiration for white foods
could be something called Tyson Foods
which I'm sure you've heard of I love
the chicken nuggets I don't know about
you it tells much out of it yeah you
know Tyson Foods was actually founded in
Arkansas as well no specifically
Springdale and you know obviously
they're a huge multinational corporation
that are you know one of the biggest
manufacturers and processors of meat
specifically chicken and beef in the
u.s. in the world but also you know in a
small town would have their hands in a
lot of different avenues of course
oolitic oh yes charity and lobbyists all
over the place of course and you know
think about it this in the 80's 90's
lots of vast influence mm-hmm
getting jobs to a lot of the community
and also you know having the power to
influence are you about to have Tyson's
lawyers come in this door any second I'm
not blaming you don't Tyson is not
involved in any other stuff I'm just
saying you know they might have gotten
some inspiration of Tyson and maybe the
impact that a corporation would have in
this small other community
I just love those nuggets more things we
find from the notebook yeah from Julie's
notebook a drawing of a castle you know
it lives in the castle okay a yellow
King lives in a castle a drawing of a
kitchen or an interior of a house or a
castle looking spot right huh yeah you
know maybe it's just an imaginary play
area imaginary spot maybe they've seen
as kids again because this leads back to
D&D something to do with the game I
doubtful it has anything to do with the
game here she would have drawn like I
can see like some drawing of some king
or queen or some a weird thing we didn't
get back yet we just got a castle yeah
we do know though that will is big time
into D&D we saw some of the dice in the
forest yes Wayne found at my first
initial thought when I saw him grab the
dice those like don't take a picture of
it first did he did he do it I'm
thinking too far into this case I know
because I wanted to see like wait what
were the numbers too then you never know
cuz some fox or something they kicked it
over I didn't totally it's fine I guess
deny blaming it back on the Fox I see
you Greg also out in the woods was a
couple more of those dolls yes and some
other toys I think I saw a Han Solo and
a Princess Leia toys but our Luke and
yeah I got that too I think that's the
one they were clearly pointing at don't
want you to make sure to pay attention
to them now the major point here is that
it it seems as if this was a secret
hangout they had a friend they had a
secret friend that none of the parents
knew about parents couldn't recognize
any of these toys didn't know if they
bought them for them or you know where
they acquired them but it's very likely
that someone was an adult was meeting
them there and giving them his toys and
you know it became a regular thing we
don't know yet could it be it could be
another kid too we sure don't we don't
know that we also find the location of
where
will was probably killed presumably
killed at this one spot because of the
blood they found on the rocks it looks
like he again I still think it may what
if he tripped fell back and hit that
rock they're playing this game this
dandy game I'm the King all right
everything saw you he tried to cover it
up because she was scared and you can't
run away she the thing is lifting the
body up in all this it still seems like
there may be someone else there but it
doesn't mean that there was a murder at
this location correct now this leaves
them down to a farmhouse that's located
right near this area of course there's
not it's not on any map not on any map
no house I was immediately suspicious of
this uh-huh
said on any map and the old man in there
has some pretty intriguing details
Shaymin yeah I loved it because he says
oh yeah there was a copier earlier now
any Law & Order episode you're like oh
this is when Tutuola says what cop they
mean just looks at the guy and then we
got him that's immediately you're going
down that route but I feel like yes
there's tiny clues for that someone's
lying yes because again weighing in in
Roland they're completely blindsided
that another cop went there because
officially no one talked to this huh
this resident here yeah there's no
reason they wouldn't have said anything
about this resident at any point in the
investigation earlier so the man shares
some more details about the kids he says
he's seen them three or four times
playing in the woods okay and that he
also saw a brown sedan an upscale brown
sedan something that might stick out in
this community with a black man and a
white woman inside the car yeah
numerous times so I'm like okay where's
the why in that storm where's the twist
in that I I like to think that maybe it
wasn't a black man in a white person I
feel like maybe he's switching the races
there right but then that leads you back
towards Amelia again and I'm still not
going down that route I don't think it's
Amelia also this brown car if you want
to look leaving putting that clue in
there for the viewers these very hard
yes they're gonna go back and look so
like at shoe picking Briarcliff there's
a brown car when the kids leave right
off when when they say bye dad and and
dad's screaming at him say come back
home at this time so whoever's out there
they could have heard them right then in
there this brown caddie I think but
again we're looking for some
like brand-new I'm assuming here we
haven't seen this car just yet I
definitely do agree with you that that
there are there there's probably a
little bit truth in here sprinkle them
with a lot of mm-hmm you know obviously
we can't trust anyone right so he's
definitely lying about different parts
of this like he remembers those details
but then he can't describe or even
recall the name of the person that came
over to question him you know he just
showed him a badge so it's like which
part of this is the truth which part is
the lie and and clearly he either is
trying to get them off the trail of what
really happened or the guy who showed up
earlier could have paid him off exactly
say this when these cops show up
totally now you might call me crazy for
this but I went back to the notebook
drawings of Julie's right mm-hmm and we
saw that castle that she drew I have it
right here yes it looks eerily similar
to how a child might see this farmhouse
with the stone hedges in the front you
know it has kind of its own little
castle vibe to it as well as the
interior of this kitchen I mean it's not
you know a perfect rendition of it of
course but with the drawers and they
were light bringing in the bringing in
the the light from outside it feels and
in that coupled with the fact that this
guy seems extremely suspicious I buy
that it feels very much so that the kids
have been to this place numerous times
not only have they hung out in the woods
and play games but they've been to this
man's house and he has a relationship
with someone that knows a lot more or he
knows a lot more himself about what
happened to the kids don't you need a
warrant for something like that you make
us get one I think you have to son now
back in 2015 on the true criminal set
Alyssa she brings up a few new details
in the case Wayne let him know that some
things were you know you know washed
over in the investigation the addition
of the scar was the new thing yes
and then Wayne kind of recalls that the
the tire tracks back when he was
investigating he saw the tire tracks he
remembers seeing hiding tracks near near
the woods near the crime scene so you
know the the brown sedan keeps kind of
recycling through his head you know
Julie was right my car somewhere but we
haven't seen that car yet so we don't
know what's going on with that but yeah
it looks like little clues are coming
back that way this alone
don't you think points to serious flaws
in the investigation from the beginning
okay let's move back to Bret Woodard for
a second here the second that scene
started you heard the truck mob
mentality yes a racist locals bomb bomb
yeah all that I was like oh here we go I
thought they're gonna kill him
beat him up threatened his life yep his
life the sad thing is like he fought for
those guys you know even says it in
Vietnam I fought for your rights no
one's giving a fair shake he's
everyone's presuming him guilty mm-hmm
just because he's uh kept himself and
what do we what do you take off that see
more it looks like he's got a body
please yeah we talked about this a
little bit earlier before we were
shooting I do not think I think there's
a zero percent chance but that's a body
it's not a knockdown Julie there's
something about it there no I think what
they're trying to do is obviously make
you think that it's a body but it's
pretty clear that it wouldn't be
revealed that way that quickly no way no
so I I definitely think that he's gonna
fight back
I think that's a hundred percent
guaranteed I think he's pissed off
Nicky's he has a short fuse at this
point he's seen how the community has
treated him prior to this oh you think
he's going postal
oh yeah he's okay like all right Oh the
community has already kind of discarded
him he's already treated like an
outsider mm-hmm and then when this case
comes up and now they're literally
resorting to physical means to taunt him
and to hurt him I think that now he's
gonna get a snap I think that snapped
he's gonna try to kill every single one
of those guys those those those men that
tried to kill him okay now back in 1990
a little bit of a surprise for most of
us I did not see this coming
uh Tom he's still alive he's found God
he's sober he's sobered up and Lucy has
passed away yeah it's been a couple
years since Lucy passed away she passed
away in Vegas he says he brought the
baddy body back from Vegas so you know
they dealt with this tragedy in
different ways obviously it was hard for
her she had to leave
we don't know how she died but he kind
of he found God and he's kind of
reinvigorated by the idea that Julie
still out there and the news of her
prince there you know at the heart at
the pharmacy mhm so he kind of just
wants to find out the truth and find and
find his fight his child like this like
this oh did you think you could just go
on and never once have to look back now
we go forward to 2015 and just me but
you had the whole show figure it out
they bring up different dimensions ghost
amelia has returned in she's haunting
him
yeah the hallucination was interesting
you know in it and it was a different
version of amelia not only physically
that we've seen but also like it seemed
that she was kind of prodding him or in
questioning him or kind of antagonizing
him which we don't we haven't seen her
really do that before we've we've seen
her kind of the more loving side of her
and that kind of stuff and now this one
was more like you know you don't want
them to find what you left in the woods
and and and all these questions of
dimensions and different realities and
timelines and I think it's just pretty
much reiterating the fact that Wayne is
is haunted by his loss of memory by not
only her passing but also the fact that
he can't remember what is real and what
isn't
yes we're not looking at different
timelines here I don't think I think
it's just the more to deal with his
memory now the big thing to keep of note
in that little conversation was he left
something apparently in the woods he's
gotta go back and find it that she knows
about yes or that his conscious is kind
of reminding him about McKenna he he
feels bad about it or he say something
about what he left in the woods I don't
really actually going back into the
woods ya know maybe he covered something
up that he saw or he he took justice
into his own hands and and he's kind of
mm-hmm
not telling the whole truth of what
happened kept a clue maybe he held on to
a clue who knows now speaking of going
back to the house we go back again and
we find another clue here this family
photo album where they find little will
his hands your hands clasped together I
can prayer
it's it's it's not like a a rare
occurrence right if you're going to
church and like this is something but
they think that someone who took the
photo would be linked then to yes
the killer putting them the hands back
in prayer or not I think it's a very
loose connection I mean I you know it
could be anyone who opened up that book
and just found any of that but it could
also be like you know a lot of bodies
when they're laid to rest are either put
in prayer or their you know hands
crossed or you know I don't I don't
think it means that that that is the
killer who who also took the photo of
someone who prayer I mean you know you'd
see hundreds and thousands of people
pose that way in religious and so you
think maybe Wayne takes it a little too
far well yeah I think Wayne is
specifically Wayne when he sees them he
comes across the red lights go off in
his head he comes across a dead boy's
body you know that makes them extremely
hyper sensitive to anything any imagery
that looks that way so I think it kind
of may be you know he's I think it's
another case where the evidence is kind
of pulling them in another direction it
doesn't necessarily mean it's the killer
now back in 1990 I had the return of our
our duo that two detectives team up
again yes one of the most true detective
scenes and all of treaty tech I loved it
I loved the banter back in forever
honestly the only thing missing was John
Wayne as the like barkeep that was the
only thing missing from that scene
because it felt like the moment they
leave they get up I'm thinking searchers
I feel like okay this is great we're
going into a western 90s this is gonna
be the searchers yeah I love that and I
think fittingly this is the moment where
it's gonna be less of those depositions
and now yep the case will move forward
in the 90s and we'll get we're gonna
find out what happened after they got
back together I started to Rio
they were reopen the case and started
working together again good to have
those two back together and there was
maybe a little bit of jealousy on
Wayne's part about what happened to
Roland it wasn't like super hard
feelings between them but it got
political at some point mm-hmm and it
seems like they're lighting bygones be
bygones because they quickly go through
that I loved it
so I about to pick
I know you know
after
so let's end on this do you think that
we have seen the killer yet I almost
want to say yes but only if if you want
to go down the Emilia route but I'm not
doing that I don't think we do not think
we have seen the killer yet but you're
nothing towards if you had to pick one
it would be a melee area now in the
comments section people have pointed out
then in the past you have seen the
killer in the third episode of each
season so I don't think they're gonna do
it this I don't think the creators will
do that this time around but keep that
and keep that in mind that you may have
seen the killer in this episode I'm so
I'm still leaning towards the the white
family
I don't something's mysterious about
them I mean he just bounces right
conveniently right before Halloween that
line homeless on a safari way needs a
hunter okay yeah just gonna come fine I
want Wayne to hunt down this guy who
thinks he's a hunter I think I'm just
very suspicious about the whoit whoit
foods and about the people that run that
company um I have some bad bad vibes
no no 2015 that guys probably long gone
I think at this point again we're
dealing with maybe just Julie at this
point of the story in 2015 if there's
anyone that could help Julie disappear
don't you think it would be someone with
deep pockets like the Hoyts yes Jake
it's Chinatown
but guys who's up in the comments let us
know what you think
give us your theories your predictions
who you think the killer is killers are
let us know and obviously come back next
week
mmm episode 4 of true detective see that
bye bye